h1. Database Project

This is the source code for the course project for 22C:144 Database Systems for the University of Iowa. 

Written in Ruby on Rails, this project combines to functionality of a course registration system, a course delivery system, and a library catalog management system into one website. This proof-of-concept website combines the utilities of "Twitter Bootstrap":http://getbootstrap.com/, "Devise":https://github.com/plataformatec/devise, "Pundit":https://github.com/elabs/pundit, "CarrierWave":https://github.com/carrierwaveuploader/carrierwave, "Ransack":https://github.com/activerecord-hackery/ransack, and "Figaro":https://github.com/laserlemon/figaro to create a simple interface that works well for both desktop and mobile devices.

Deployed on "Heroku":uiowa-ds.uiowa.edu, this website makes use of environment variables to hide user information for initial database population, a Blowfish cipher derivation "bcrypt" for password encryption under the Devise library, and Heroku's various security standards, such as ISO 27001 and SOC1 and SOC 2/SSAE 16/ISAE 3402. 

As a simple website, this project implemented several features commonly found in similar systems, but combine them in a single entity.

* Courses are organized by semesters, departments, and course numbers, and are easily searchable using any of its various fields.
* Students may search and register for courses that interest them, as well as placing hold requests for books that pique their interests.
* Administrators can view and set certain characteristics for each user, all within a single page.
* AJAX smooths out the interactions between the client and server by updating certain attributes in place, requiring fewer page reloads.
* Librarians can add books to the catalog, as well as check out and mark books as returned, and fines are enforced when materials are returned late.

More features may be easily added as the project continues. In the future, we plan on extending this project to Android smartphones, allowing a smartphone app to access website information through AJAX requests without a web browser.
